# I18n

## Extracting string from the source code

Run `./gradlew generatePot` and you will find a `*.pot` file in the directory `$buildDir/i18n`.

## Adding files, which you get back from the translators
After the translators did their work, they will give you a file back, probably in one of the three formats below.
`*.po` and `*.mo` are file formats of GNU gettext, while `*.lang` files are in a custom format created for JOSM.

If you wanted, you could even mix these formats, but that's not recommended.

### Using translated *.po files

Put the files in the directory `src/$sourceSetName/po` (e.g. `src/main/po`), then build normally and the files should be picked up.

> **Note:** If you use `*.po` files, you'll need `xgettext` to build your JOSM plugin with internationalisation. Everyone who does not have `xgettext` installed can still build the project, but these builds are then not internationalised.


### Using translated *.mo files

Put the files in the directory `src/$sourceSetName/mo`, then build normally and the files should be picked up.

### Using translated *.lang files

Put the files in the directory `src/$sourceSetName/lang`, then build normally and the files should be picked up.

## Change the path from where translated files are picked up

If you want to put your translated files in another location, add the relevant parts of the following snippet to your `build.gradle` and modify it according to your needs:

```kotlin
sourceSets {
  main { // you can do that for any source set, doesn't have to be `main`
    po {
      setSrcDirs(setOf("new/po/source/directory"))
    }
    mo {
      setSrcDirs(setOf("new/mo/source/directory"))
    }
    lang {
      setSrcDirs(setOf("new/lang/source/directory"))
    }
  }
}
```
